sql: add fast mode (#9699)
pingcap/docs: develop/dev-guide-read-in-fast-mode.md

---
title: Fast Mode
summary: Introduces a way to speed up the querying of AP scenarios by using Fast Mode.
---

# Fast Mode

This document describes how to use Fast Mode to speed up queries in Analytical Processing (AP) scenarios.

TiFlash supports the following modes:

> - `Normal Mode` mode. The default mode. This mode guarantees the accuracy of query results and data consistency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Normal Mode`. The default mode. This mode guarantees the accuracy of query results and data consistency.
```

> - `Fast Mode` mode. This mode does not guarantee the accuracy of query results and data consistency, but provides more efficient query performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Fast Mode`. This mode does not guarantee the accuracy of query results and data consistency, but provides more efficient query performance.
```

> AP allows for some tolerance to the accuracy of the query results. If you need higher query performance, you can switch the corresponding table to TiFlash's Fast Mode for querying.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some AP scenarios allow for some tolerance to the accuracy of the query results. In these cases, if you need higher query performance, you can switch the corresponding table to TiFlash's Fast Mode for querying.
```

> The mode switch takes effect globally. TiFlash mode switching is only available for tables with TiFlash Replica. TiFlash-related operations are not supported for temporary tables, in-memory tables, system tables, and tables with non-utf-8 characters in the column names, and therefore changing TiFlash table mode is not supported for them.

Reviewer 2: The mode switch  takes effect globally only for the table whose mode are set to fast by the sql ’alter table set tiflash mode‘, not all the tiflash tables. 
Make sure users will not be confused.

Author: OK. Refined as follows. PTAL.

For more information, see [ALTER TABLE SET TIFLASH MODE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-tiflash-mode.md).

## Switch to Fast Mode

By default, all tables are in Normal Mode. You can use the following statement to view the current table mode.

```sql
SELECT table_mode FROM information_schema.tiflash_replica WHERE table_name = 'table_name' AND table_schema = 'database_name'
```

Use the following statement to switch the corresponding table to Fast Mode.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
ALTER TABLE table_name SET TIFALSH MODE FAST
```

Once the switch is complete, subsequent queries in TiFlash will be performed in Fast Mode.

You can switch back to Normal Mode using the following statement.

```sql
ALTER TABLE table_name SET TIFALSH MODE NORMAL
```

## Mechanism of Fast Mode

> The data in the stroage layer of TiFlash is stored in two layers: Delta layer and Stable layer.

Reviewer: stroage --> storage
I think we may can change the expression of 'storage layer'. Too many 'layers' may make a little weird.

Author: fixed

> The data in the stroage layer of TiFlash is stored in two layers: Delta layer and Stable layer.

Author: ```suggestion
The data in the storage layer of TiFlash is stored in two layers: Delta layer and Stable layer.
```

The overall TableScan algorithm process in Normal Mode consists of the following steps:

1. Read data: separate data streams are created in the Delta layer and Stable layer to read the respective data.

> 2. Sort Merge: the data streams created in step 1 are merged and the data is returned in (handle, version) order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Sort Merge: the data streams created in step 1 are sorted merged and the data is returned in (handle, version) order.
```

> 3. Range Filter: the data from step 2 is filtered and returned.

Reviewer: I think the descriptions of these two steps(3,4) are not match the description in chinese articles, maybe need a change.

Author: Refined

> 3. Range Filter: the data from step 2 is filtered and returned.

Author: ```suggestion
3. Range Filter: filters the data generated in step 2 and returns it.
```

> 4. MVCC + Column Filter: the data from step 3 is filtered by MVCC, and the unneeded columns are filtered out and the the data is returned.

Author: ```suggestion
4. MVCC + Column Filter: filter the data generated in step 3 through MVCC. Meanwhile, filter out the unneeded columns and the the data is returned.
```

> Fast Mode mode gains faster query performance by sacrificing some data consistency. The TableScan process in Fast Mode omits Step 2 and the MVCC part in Step 4 in the Normal Mode process, thus improving query performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fast Mode gains faster query performance by sacrificing some data consistency. The TableScan process in Fast Mode omits Step 2 and the MVCC part in Step 4 in the Normal Mode process, thus improving query performance.
```

Some OLAP scenarios allow for some tolerance to the accuracy of the query results. In these cases, if you need higher query performance, you can switch the corresponding table to TiFlash's Fast Mode for querying.

The mode switch takes effect globally only for those tables whose mode is set to Fast Mode by [ALTER TABLE SET TIFLASH MODE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-tiflash-mode.md). TiFlash-related operations are not supported for temporary tables, in-memory tables, system tables, and tables with non-utf-8 characters in the column names, and therefore changing TiFlash table mode is not supported for them.

For more information, see [ALTER TABLE SET TIFLASH MODE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-tiflash-mode.md).

## Switch to Fast Mode

By default, all tables are in Normal Mode. You can use the following statement to view the current table mode.

```sql
SELECT table_mode FROM information_schema.tiflash_replica WHERE table_name = 'table_name' AND table_schema = 'database_name'
```

Use the following statement to switch the corresponding table to Fast Mode.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Fast Mode
summary: Introduces a way to speed up the querying of AP scenarios by using Fast Mode.
---

# Fast Mode

> **Warning:**
>
> This feature is still an experimental feature. It is NOT recommended that you use it in the production environment.

> This document describes how to use Fast Mode to speed up queries in Analytical Processing (AP) scenarios.

Author: ```suggestion
This document describes how to use Fast Mode to speed up queries in Online Analytical Processing (OLAP) scenarios.
```

TiFlash supports the following modes:

> - `Normal Mode`. The default mode. This mode guarantees the accuracy of query results and data consistency.

Author: ok

> - `Normal Mode`. The default mode. This mode guarantees the accuracy of query results and data consistency.

Author: ```suggestion
- `Normal Mode`. The default mode. This mode guarantees the precision of query results and data consistency.
```

- `Fast Mode`. This mode does not guarantee the accuracy of query results and data consistency, but provides more efficient query performance.

> Some AP scenarios allow for some tolerance to the accuracy of the query results. In these cases, if you need higher query performance, you can switch the corresponding table to TiFlash's Fast Mode for querying.

Reviewer 2: AP is not so formal, OLAP seems good.

Author: OK fixed.

> Some AP scenarios allow for some tolerance to the accuracy of the query results. In these cases, if you need higher query performance, you can switch the corresponding table to TiFlash's Fast Mode for querying.

Author: ```suggestion
Some OLAP scenarios allow for some tolerance to the accuracy of the query results. In these cases, if you need higher query performance, you can switch the corresponding table to TiFlash's Fast Mode for querying.
```

> The mode switch takes effect globally. TiFlash mode switching is only available for tables with TiFlash Replica. TiFlash-related operations are not supported for temporary tables, in-memory tables, system tables, and tables with non-utf-8 characters in the column names, and therefore changing TiFlash table mode is not supported for them.

Author: ```suggestion
The mode switch takes effect globally only for those tables whose mode is set to Fast Mode by [ALTER TABLE SET TIFLASH MODE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-tiflash-mode.md). TiFlash-related operations are not supported for temporary tables, in-memory tables, system tables, and tables with non-utf-8 characters in the column names, and therefore changing TiFlash table mode is not supported for them.
```

For more information, see [ALTER TABLE SET TIFLASH MODE](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-tiflash-mode.md).

## Switch to Fast Mode

By default, all tables are in Normal Mode. You can use the following statement to view the current table mode.

```sql
SELECT table_mode FROM information_schema.tiflash_replica WHERE table_name = 'table_name' AND table_schema = 'database_name'
```

Use the following statement to switch the corresponding table to Fast Mode.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql

> ALTER TABLE table_name SET TIFALSH MODE FAST

Author: ```suggestion
ALTER TABLE table_name SET TIFLASH MODE FAST
```

> {{< copyable "sql" >}}

Reviewer 2: seems strange, please check if this is correct.

Author: Deleted.

> {{< copyable "sql" >}}

Author: ```suggestion
```

```

Once the switch is complete, subsequent queries in TiFlash will be performed in Fast Mode.

You can switch back to Normal Mode using the following statement.

```sql
ALTER TABLE table_name SET TIFLASH MODE NORMAL
```

## Mechanism of Fast Mode

The data in the storage layer of TiFlash is stored in two layers: Delta layer and Stable layer.

The overall TableScan algorithm process in Normal Mode consists of the following steps:

1. Read data: separate data streams are created in the Delta layer and Stable layer to read the respective data.

> 2. Sort Merge: the data streams created in step 1 are sorted and merged, and the data is returned in (handle, version) order.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Sort Merge: the data streams created in Step 1 are sorted and merged, and the data is returned in (handle, version) order.
```

> 3. Range Filter: according to the data range, filter the data generated in step 2, and then return the data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Range Filter: according to the data range, filter the data generated in Step 2, and then return the data.
```
